journal       maa
lineage	      lineage	      
excavate      excavate      
charismatic   charismatic   
rank	      maa
missile	      missile	      
biscuit	      biscuit	      
reign	      reign	      
letter	      letter	      
paaalace      paaalace      
paaaot	      paaaot	      
straaaeam     straaaeam     
aaapath	      aaapath	      
laaaandscape  laaaandscape  
drawer	      drawer	      
magnitude     magnitude     
lung	      lung	      
noble	      noble	      
relieve	      relieve	      
facade	      facade	      
man	      man	      
daughter      daughter      
mall	      mall	      
cruel	      cruel	      
maniac	      maniac	      
maximum	      maximum	      
manipulation  manipulation  
suggest	      suggest	      
decrease      decrease      
demonstrator  demonstrator  
joke	      joke	      
autonomy      autonomy      
liability     liability     
maximum	      maximum	      
suggest	      suggest	      
decrease      decrease      
demonstrator  demonstrator  
joke	      joke	      
autonomy      autonomy      
liability     liability     
